Document new billing mechanism with seats (#129)
swimmio/docs.swimm.io: docs/authorization/Users-and-billing.mdx

---
id: Users and billing
slug: Users-and-billing
---

import useBaseUrl from "@docusaurus/useBaseUrl";
import Link from "@docusaurus/Link";

# Users and billing

> As an admin of your workspace, you can view your members, requests and invites, within the `Workspace Settings`, under the `Members` tab.

Reviewer: We're not using the word 'invite' that much anymore.

Reviewer: @Omerr ?

User management for your workspace is different between the Free and other plans.

## Free plan
For the free plan, you can add users until you reach the free limit. You can also remove users, but notice that you cannot replace them with new users in the Free plan.

## Standard and Pro plans

> On a monthly plan, you can add or remove seats, and billing would be affected by the next billing cycle.

Reviewer: You can't really add or remove seats, you can add users or remove users, no seats are visible (they are managed automatically and you get refunded for them automatically).

> On a yearly plan, you can add seats. When removing a user, you receive an empty seat until the next annual billing cycle.  

Reviewer: You can add users (again, seats are added automatically).
When removing a user, the rest of the text is correct.

## Billing
You are charged a prorated amount for each seat.

## FAQ

### A user has not received an invite

> ### Who can invite users to the workspace?

Reviewer: Don't use the word invite, use the word 'Add users'

---
id: Users and billing
slug: Users-and-billing
---

import useBaseUrl from "@docusaurus/useBaseUrl";
import Link from "@docusaurus/Link";

# Users and billing

As an admin of your workspace, you can view your members, requests and invites, within the `Workspace Settings`, under the `Members` tab.

User management for your workspace is different between the Free and other plans.

## Free plan
For the free plan, you can add users until you reach the free limit.

When users are removed, their seats remain occupied but the user loses access to the system.

A seat is taken only when a user actively joins the workspace. Unaccepted invites can be removed without taking up a seat.

When you upgrade to a paid plan or start a trial - you be charged according to the actual amount of users.

## Standard and Pro plans
On a monthly plan, you can add or remove users at any time. Billing would be affected by the next billing cycle.

> On a yearly plan, when users are removed, your workspace receives an empty seat until the next billing cycle. On the next billing cycle, empty seats will be automatically removed.

Reviewer: @Omerr this has changed, please re-read the document I sent about seat behavior: https://app.clickup.com/3723701/v/dc/3hmdn-42082/3hmdn-32962
It behaves the same in the yearly and monthly plans.

---
id: Users and billing
slug: Users-and-billing
---

import useBaseUrl from "@docusaurus/useBaseUrl";
import Link from "@docusaurus/Link";

# Users and billing

As an admin of your workspace, you can view your members and requests, within the `Workspace Settings`, under the `Members` tab.

User management for your workspace is different between the Free and other plans.

## Free plan

> For the free plan, you can add users until you reach the free limit of seats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the free plan, you can add users until you reach the free limit of users.

```

> When a user actively joins the workspace, a seat is taken. Unaccepted invites can be removed without taking up a seat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a user actively joins the workspace, they are counted toward the limit of free users. Unaccepted invites can be removed without being counted toward the limit.

```

> When users are removed, their seats remain occupied but the user loses access to the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When users are removed, the user loses access to the system, but **they are still counted toward the limit of free users**. It is therefore not possible to 'replace' users with other users in the free plan.

```

When you upgrade to a paid plan or start a trial - you will be charged according to the actual amount of users (regardless of the number of occupied seats prior to upgrading).

## Standard and Pro plans
On these plans, you can add or remove users at any time. Billing would be affected by the next billing cycle.

Upon removing a user, the user loses access to the workspace.

> You are charged a prorated amount for each seat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are charged a prorated amount for each added user.

```

## FAQ

### Who can add users to the workspace?
Any Workspace admin can add new users to the workspace.

### Can I promote users to be admins?
Yes. Under the `Members` tab in your `Workspace Settings`, you can change a user's `Role` from `Member` to `Admin` or vice versa.

### What are empty seats?

> When removing a user, the user's seat is empty. On the next billing cycle, empty seats are removed (until the minimum seat count is reached).

Reviewer: No need to mention minimum seat count as users are not exposed to this concept

```suggestion
When removing a user, the user's seat becomes empty. When you have empty seats and add users, the seats will be filled automatically and you will not be charged extra for those users.
On the next billing cycle, empty seats are removed automatically.

```

> A workspace can have a minimum seat count - if your workspace has a minimum seat count, you will see "empty seats" when there are fewer users than the minimum number of seats.

Reviewer: I think we can remove this as this is only for specific customers
